LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, MY NEXT
GUEST IS ONE OF THE BIGGEST
NAMES IN HIP-HOP, A CIVIC
LEADER, AND AN ACTIVIST.
PLEASE WELCOME KILLER MIKE.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
KILLER MIKE THANKS FOR BEING
HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
MY WIFE PUT ME ON A DIET, I LOST
FOUR POUNDS AND NOW I CAN'T KEEP
MY PANTS UP.
>> Stephen: THANK YOU FOR
WEARING YOUR FORMAL SWEATS FOR
US TONIGHT.
>> ACTUALLY, THESE ARE FORMAL.
THIS IS MY P.T.A. MEETING
OUTFIT.
>> Stephen: OH, REALLY, WHEN
YOU HAVE TO GO TALK?
>> EXACTLY, WHEN I HAVE TO GO
TALK AROUND OTHER PARENTS AND
YOU DON'T WANT TO DRESS LIKE,
YOU KNOW, A RAPPER.
YOU PUT ON A SWEAT SUIT THAT HAS
A CARDIGAN SWEATER.
>> Stephen: WHEN YOU GO MEET
YOUR KIDS IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL,
DO THE TEACHERS GO, "NOW, KILLER
MIKE, I WANT TO TALK TO YOU."
>> THEY SAY THAT AFTER WE
DISCUSS WHY MY CHILD IS
FIGHTING.
( LAUGHTER )
>> Stephen: COULD IT HAVE
ANYTHING TO DO WITH YOUR NAME,
KILLER MIKE?
>> IT'S THE GIRLS THAT ARE
FIGHTING.
THE BOYS ARE PRETTY GOOD.
>> Stephen: GIRLS CAN FIGHT.
IT'S A WHOLE NEW WORLD.
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: WHY KILLER MIKE?
>> I DIDN'T NAME MYSELF.
I WANT TO SAY IT WASN'T LIKE
SOME KID WAS STANDING IN THE
MIRROR AND DECIDE HE LOOK LIKE
AID KILLER.
I WOULD HAVE LIKE BIKE BOUGATI
MIKE, OR FERRARI MIKE.
I RAPID AS A KID AND RAPPED
REALLY WELL AND SEVEN OR EIGHT
OTHER GUYS AND STOOD ON A DESK
AND SAID, "THAT KID'S A KILLER."
AND AFTER THAT NOBODY EVER
CALLED ME SKUNK AGAIN IN MY
LIFE, JUST KILLER.
>> Stephen: KILLER, THAT'S
AWESOME.
YOUR ORIGINAL NAME IS MICHAEL
RENDER.
>> MICHAEL RENDER IS MY NAME.
>> Stephen: THAT'S A GOOD
NAME, TOO, MIKE RENDER.
LIKE YOU'RE TEARING THE MIKE
APART.
>> AND MY DAUGHTER'S NAME IS
MICHAEL RENDER.
>> Stephen: YOUR DAUGHTER'S
NAME IS MICHAEL?
THAT'S A PRETTY NAME FOR A GIRL.
>> I THINK SO.
SHE'S GOT TO STOP FIGHTING.
>> Stephen: WE ALL HAVE TO
STOP FIGHTING.
WE ALL HAVE TO STOP FIGHTING.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: AS I SAID YOU'RE A
CIVIC LEADER.
YOU'RE SOCIALLY ACTIVE.
>> I AM.
>> Stephen: HIP-HOP ARTIST.
>> I OWN BARBER SHOPS.
>> Stephen: YOU DO OWN BARBER
SHOPS.
>> I'M PART OF A VERY GOOD RAP
GROUP CALLED RUN THE JEWELS.
WE'RE WORKING ON PART THREE
RIGHT NOW.
>> Stephen: IT WAS JUST
ANNOUNCED YOU GUYS ARE GOING TO
BE INCLUDED IN COACHELLA THIS
YEAR, RIGHT?
>> BACK TO BACK.
>> Stephen: THAT'S FANTASTIC.
>> WE ARE BACK.
>> Stephen: THIS YEAR, IF I
CAN SPEAK FOR ALL WHITE PEOPLE,
( LAUGHTER )
--
>> I PREFER YOU SPEAKING FOR ALL
WHITE PEOPLE.
>> Stephen: ANOTHER YOU SPEAK
FOR ALL BLACK PEOPLE, OKAY?
>> TODAY I DO.
>> Stephen: OKAY.
THIS YEAR, TRAGICALLY, A LOT OF
PEOPLE IN THE WHITE COMMUNITY
HAVE FOUND OUT ABOUT THE LIFE OF
AFRICAN AMERICANS IN FERGUSON,
BALTIMORE, NORTH CHARLESTON,
OTHER PLACES AROUND THE UNITED
STATES.
DO YOU THINK THE AWARENESS THAT
HAS RISEN THROUGH THESE GARAGE
TRAJ DEES HAS CHANGED ANYTHING,
AT LEAST THROUGH DIALOGUE.
>> WHITE PEOPLE WATCHING, GOOGLE
JANE ELLIOT, SHE HAS AN
EXPERIMENT, THE BLUE AND
BROWNIDE EXPERIMENT.
I ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO WATCH
THAT, IT WILL ACTUALLY GROW YOU.
YOU NO, BACK TO STUFF THAT WILL
MAKE YOU LAUGH.
IF WHITE PEOPLE ARE NOW JUST
DISCOVERING THAT IT'S BAD FOR
BLACK OR WORKING CLASS PEOPLE IN
AMERICA, THEY'RE A LOT MORE
BLIND THAN I THOUGHT AND THEY'RE
A LOT MORE CHOOSING TO BE
IGNORANT THAN I THOUGHT.
THE SAME PROBLEMS WE'RE
DISCUSSING TODAY WE DISCUSSED IN
1990, 1980, 1970, AND 1960.
AND UNTIL WE CALL A SPADE A
SPADE AND THIS PROBLEM IS COMING
FROM CONDITIONS WE'RE CREATING
OR ALLOWING TO HAPPEN AS A WHITE
GROUP OF PEOPLE WHO HOLD A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF POWER --
>> DO YOU THINK THERE'S A
SYSTEMIC ATTEMPT IN THE UNITED
STATES TO ISOLATE POOR AND
MINORITIES, TO PUT THEM IN
COMMUNITIES THAT CAN BE
CONTROLLED?
>> IT'S NOT AN ATTEMPT AT ALL.
IT'S SUCCESSFUL.
IF YOU LOOK AT DALY AND THE
HIGHWAYS IN, WHICH HE BUILT THE
HIGHWAYS TO SEG GAILT PEOPLE.
THERE'S NO ROUND-ABOUT WAY TO DO
IT.
ABSOLUTELY.
>> Stephen: AGAIN, SPEAKING
FOR ALL WHITE PEOPLE WHAT, CAN
WE-- WHAT CAN WE DO TO BRIDGE
THE GAP BETWEEN THE COMMUNITIES
OF COLOR?
SHOULD YOU-- YOU OWN BARBER
SHOPS.
SHOULD WHITE PEOPLE START
GETTING THEIR HAIR CUT AT BLACK
BARBER SHOPS?
>> I HOPE SO.
>> Stephen: BECAUSE THERE ARE
CONVERSATIONS GOING ON AT THOSE
BARBER SHOPS THAT WE'RE NOT PART
OF.
>> AND WHITE PEOPLE PAY $50 FOR
HAIR CUTS, SO, ABSOLUTELY.
I WOULD LIKE THAT.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
I SPEAK AT COLLEGES OFTEN, AND
WHEN I SPEAK AT BLACK COLLEGES,
AND I SPEAK AT WHITE COLLEGES, A
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT MESSAGE.
THE MESSAGE THEY PREACH TO WHITE
KIDS THAT ARE IN TALLAHASSEE,
ATLANTA, GEORGIA TECH, PLACES
LIKE NEW YORK, IS GET OUTSIDE
THE COLLEGE ENVIRONMENT, FIND A
CHILD WHO IS MARGINAL OR DOING
EXCEPTIONAL IN SCHOOL WHO IS A
MINORITY, DOESN'T LOOK LIKE YOU,
NOT OF THE SAME RELIGION, NOT OF
THE SAME BACKGROUND, HELP THAT
CHILD MATRICULATE INTO COLLEGE.
HELP THEM BY BEING A BIG
BROTHER, BIG SMENTORING THEM.
DON'T GIVE THEM GIFTS AND MAKE
YOURSELF FEEL GOOD, HEY I BOUGHT
TEACHERS.
WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO GET OUT OF
THAT EXPERIENCE IS ANOTHER HUMAN
BEING TAKING FULL ADVANTAGE OF
AN EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM THAT CAN
HELP THEM IN THEIR COMMUNITY.
BUT IT GROWS YOU AS A HUMAN
BEING TO HAVE EMPATHY FOR
SOMEONE WHO DIDN'T LOOK LIKE YOU
AND IS CULTURALLY NOT FROM YOUR
BACKGROUND.
>> Stephen: SPEAKING OF CUMENT
RALLY, SPEAKING OF CULTURALLY--
WE'VE ONLY GOT A MINUTE HERE.
SPEAKING OF PEOPLE NOT
CULTURALLY FROM YOUR BACKGROUND,
YOU'RE FEELING THE BERN.
YOU LIKE BERNIE SANDERS.
>> I DO.
>> Stephen: OKAY, AS QUICKLY
AS YOU CAN, TELL ME WHY YOU
BELIEVE BERNIE IS THE MAN.
>> DR. KING IN HILLS LAST TWO
YEARS OF LIFE TALKED ABOUT A
POOR PEOPLE'S CAMPAIGN,
ORGANIZING UNIONS ON BEHALF OF
POOR WORKERS, ORGANIZING AGAINST
THE WAR MACHINE THAT WAS
PERPETUATING VIOLENCE IN
VIETNAM.
BERPY SANDERS IS THE ONLY
POLITICIAN WHO HAS CONSISTENTLY
FOR 50 YEARS TAKEN THE SOCIAL
JUSTICE PLATFORM INTO POLITICS.
AND RIGHT NOW WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO ELECT SOMEONE WHO
IS DIRECTLY OUT OF THE
PHILOSOPHY OF KINGIAN
NONVIOLENCE.
WE CAN DIRECTLY ELECT SOMEONE
WHO CARES ABOUT POOR PEOPLE,
CARES ABOUT WOMEN, GAY, BLACK
RIGHTS.
CARES ABOUT LIVES THAT DON'T
LOOK LIKE HIS HELP AND THIS
OPPORTUNITY IN HISTORY IS NOT
GOING TO COME IN ANOTHER 20
YEARS, NOT GOING TO COME IN
ANOTHER TWO YEARS.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
IF WE DO NOT TAKE THIS
OPPORTUNITY RIGHT NOW, WE'RE
GOING TO BE SITTING AROUND A
CAMPFIRE MAD BECAUSE THEY'VE
NIEWKD THE WORLD TO HELL, I'M
AFRAID, YOU KNOW.
>> Stephen: I HOPE THAT
DOESN'T HAPPEN AND I HOPE YOU
COME BACK.
KILLER MIKE.
STAY RIGHT THERE.
KILLER MIKE, EVERYBODY.
RUN THE JEWELS.
AMONG OTHER THINGS.
BARBER SHOPS.
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK.